Clarify on usage count necessary for tag to be established (#2153)
openstreetmap/id-tagging-schema: GUIDELINES.md

- 🙈 **Unsearchable Presets**: The tagging schema is not only for adding information but also for presenting existing information. Consider adding an unsearchable preset for tagging that should be highlighted with a preset on the map and with defined fields. Reasons to make a preset unsearchable include: multiple ways to tag something where one method is preferred, or other reasons to hide commonly used tags from the search and list interface to preserve a good [user experience](#user-experience).
- 🏝️ **Local Presets and Fields**: Generally, presets and fields in OSM should be globally applicable, and efforts should be made to ensure this. However, when local tagging conventions exist or when presets only make sense for certain regions, presets and fields can be given a local filter. This increases the need for thorough testing and makes it more challenging to maintain a good [user experience](#user-experience).

### Utilization Requirements

There is no fixed threshold above which a tag will be eligible to be included due to its significant usage. Factors include:

- Whether usage is organic or result of import/mass edit.
- The absolute number of occurrences of the tag is OSM.

> - For fields: How often it is used relateive to the frequency of the respective preset's primary tag

Reviewer: >relateive

relative

Author: ```suggestion
- For fields: How often it is used relative to the frequency of the respective preset's primary tag
```

- How common the tagged features are in the real world. For example, [`diplomatic=embassy`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Key:embassy) would require much lower usage threshold to be considered established, as number of embassies is vastly lower than number of shops globally.
- Whether the addition can prevent mapping mistakes. For example, [`generator:source=wave`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag%3Agenerator%3Asource%3Dwave) is used just a few times worldwide, but if omitted from presets such power plants could end up mistagged as [`generator:source=hydro`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:generator:source%3Dhydro) or [`generator:source=tidal`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:generator:source%3Dtidal).
- How this tag would be used in presets. For example an unsearchable preset not adding any new strings to translate may be accepted with fairly low usage.

Tip: In some cases the chronology graph at taginfo ([example](https://taginfo.openstreetmap.org/tags/building=trullo)) can reveal information about the utilization patterns of a specific tag.

> If unsure, you can search among [pull requests](https://github.com/openstreetmap/id-tagging-schema/pulls?q=is%3Apr) for similar ones and see whether any were accepted/rejected, this gives strong indicator what may happen with a new one. Especially ones with [label "waitfor-higher-usage"](https://github.com/openstreetmap/id-tagging-schema/issues?q=label%3Awaitfor-higher-usage) are especially likely to be relevant.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Clearer wording:

```suggestion
If unsure, you can search among [pull requests](https://github.com/openstreetmap/id-tagging-schema/pulls?q=is%3Apr) for similar ones and see whether any were accepted/rejected, this gives strong indicator what may happen with a new one. The ones labeled [waitfor-higher-usage](https://github.com/openstreetmap/id-tagging-schema/issues/labels/waitfor-higher-usage) are especially likely to be relevant.
```

Reviewer 3: applied as 76ea1ee75094a295fd0e69a76d26dd92b09485c0

- how often it could be used - a tag with 10 000 uses is unlikely to be considered as established if it is a property that could be added to every `shop=`. In comparison a property of the [`diplomatic=embassy`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Key:embassy) would require much lower usage threshold to be considered established, as number of embassies is vastly lower than number of shops.
- whether another value is likely to be used by mistake - for example [`generator:source=wave`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag%3Agenerator%3Asource%3Dwave) is used just a few times worldwide, but if omitted from presets such power plants could end up mistagged as [`generator:source=hydro`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:generator:source%3Dhydro) or [`generator:source=tidal`](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:generator:source%3Dtidal). The same applies, for example, to [rarely used `shop=` values likely to be mistagged as something else](https://github.com/openstreetmap/id-tagging-schema/pull/2004).

> In general, iD tagging schema is not intended as a place to promote new tagging that should be established but for some reason is not yet popular. If some tag is barely used and should be used more widely consider for example:

Reviewer 4: We should add here: formal discussion and voting on the tag. In general all those steps are a security measure that lead to 1. more minds think about it, 2. slows down time so the ecosystem of mapper and user and Editor can find potential issue and discuss, 3. bugs in the schema are more likely be found.
